# Exam 2019

# Principles

## Question 1-1

The Foxfire firewall is malware-free because it is open source. It comes with default settings that fit any customer requirements, so it does not need any customer-specific configuration. Packet inspection is delegated to an advanced AI engine FoxAI (r) that securely runs in Foxfire protected servers. In fact, for security reasons, Foxfire does not share the details of FoxAI(r) to anyone. In case of a DDOS attack, FoxAI (r) automatically and remotely sets Foxfire to blacklist the attacking IPs without requiring any intervention by the customer. Which security principle is violated by FoxFire?

1. Least privilege
2. Open design
    1. Korrekt - Foxfire udnytter “security through obscurity” ved at holde FoxAI’s detaljer hemmelige
3. Minimum Exposure
4. Psychological Acceptability

## Question 1-2

A train operator offers to its customers the possibility to buy digital travel ticket through an app. Once the customer purchases the ticket, the details of the tickets are securely stored on the train operator’s server. To verify a ticket, the ticket inspector is given a device that scans the ticket and send the details to the server. The server verifies that the received details match the one stored and replies back to device whether the ticket is valid or not. Which of the following security principles is violated?

1. Psychological Acceptability
2. No single point of failure
    1. Korrekt - Alt arbejdet sker på samme server, så hvis den dør er det hele dødt
3. Complete Mediation
4. Least Privilege

## Question 1-3

The vulnerability CVE-2005-0750 exploited a bug in the Bluetooth stack on Linux kernels from 2.4.6 to 2.6.11. The attack was also possible on embedded devices without any support of Bluetooth devices at all. Which of the following security principles was violated on those embedded devices?

1. Economy of Mechanism
2. Open Design
3. Minimum Exposure
    1. Korrekt - Der burde ikke kunne sendes bluetooth requests til devices, der ikke har bluetooth
4. Least Privilege

# Network Security

## Question 2-1

A 4-way switch has the following internal switching table:

```markdown
LINK MACs
1 d4:25:8b:45:20:36 40:98:ad:63:f0:f5
2 38:ca:da:a3:06:c0
3 40:98:ad:63:f0:f5 f8:95:ea:39:8a:85
4 ad:00:fe:01:01:00
```

What’s unusual about this switching table?

1. At links 1 and 3 more than one MAC is located
2. At links 2 and 4 only one MAC is located
3. A MAC is located at multiple links
    1. Korrekt - 40:98:ad:63:f0:f5 er lokeret i både link 1 og 3. Hvert MAC bør være unik.
4. Nothing

## Question 2-2

An adversary with MAC 38:ca:da:a3:06:c0/IP 169.254.191.148 who wishes to eavesdrop on MAC f8:95:ea:39:8a:85/IP 169.254.191.221 using an ARP Spoofing attack would broadcast ARP packets:

1. 169.254.191.148 IS-AT 38:ca:da:a3:06:c0
2. 169.254.191.148 IS-AT f8:95:ea:39:8a:85
3. 169.254.191.221 IS-AT 38:ca:da:a3:06:c0
    1. Targets IP, Adversarys MAC
4. 169.254.191.221 IS-AT f8:95:ea:39:8a:85

## Question 2-3

Which of the following is NOT a capability of the adversary in the Dolev-Yao model?

1. The adversary can drop messages
2. The adversary can guess secrets
    1. Dolev-Yao adversary har fuld kontrol over netværket, så den kan gøre hvad den vil med de beskeder der ryger over det. Den kan dog ikke gætte secrets, da disse ikke sendes over netværket.
3. The adversary can decrypt messages (if he knows the key)
4. The adversary can replay message

## Question 2-4

Which of the following attacks works only against HTTP servers?

1. SYN flood
2. Slow Loris
    1. Slow Loris er hvor man sender en masse HTTP requests uden at terminate dem. Så det er kun muligt mod HTTP servere
3. SYN spoofing
4. Ping flood

## Question 2-5

An amplification attack is

1. A binary exploitation technique underpinning SPECTRE and MELTDOWN
2. A DOS attack in which each spoofed request generates more than one reply
    1. Korrekt
3. A DOS attack where an attacker spoofs requests from the target
4. An attack on USB devices inducing a power surge

## Question 2-6

Which of the following rules cannot be expressed by a stateless firewall?

1. Drop all incoming packets to port 80
2. Drop all outgoing packets to port 80
3. Drop all established TCP connections to port 80
    1. En stateless firewall filtrere packets på statiske kriterier, den holder ikke styr på connections, og de kan derfor ikke droppes
4. Drop all UDP traffic to port 80

## Question 2-7

This is the output of my portscanning the ITU web server:

```bash
> sudo nmap www.itu.dk -p 1-65535 -A4
Starting Nmap 7.70 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2019-05-08 14:58 CEST
Nmap scan report for www.itu.dk (130.226.142.6)
Host is up (0.0037s latency).
rDNS record for 130.226.142.6: asterix.itu.dk
Not shown: 65532 filtered ports
PORT STATE SERVICE
80/tcp open http
443/tcp open https
1720/tcp open h323q931

Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 4.54 seconds
```

From this we learn that port 21 is:

1. Open
2. Closed
3. Filtered
    1. Vi kan se den er filtered fordi den ikke vises, og alle ports der ikke vises er filtered
4. Unfiltered